MI6 operative James Bond gains promotion to
00 agent status by assassinating two targets:
traitorous section chief Dryden at the British
Embassy in Prague and his contact, Fisher.
In Uganda, the mysterious Mr.
White introduces Steven Obanno,
a high-ranking member of the Lord's Resistance
Army, to Le Chiffre, an Albanian private banker
to terrorists. Obanno entrusts Le Chiffre
with a large sum of money to invest;
Le Chiffre subsequently buys put options
on aerospace manufacturer Skyfleet,
betting on the company's failure given his
insider knowledge of a terrorist attack.
In Madagascar, Bond pursues bomb-maker Mollaka
to an embassy, killing him and blowing up the
building. In London, MI6 chief M admonishes Bond
for causing an international incident and ignoring
her orders to capture Mollaka alive. Clues point
to corrupt Greek official Alex Dimitrios, whom
Bond finds in the Bahamas. After winning his 1964
Aston Martin DB5 in a poker game and seducing his
wife Solange, Bond pursues Dimitrios to Miami and
kills him. Bond then thwarts the destruction of
Skyfleet's prototype airliner, costing Le Chiffre
his entire investment, $101,206,000 in total. Due
to Dimitrios' failure to carry out the attack, his
wife Solange is subsequently tortured and killed.
To recoup his clients' lost money, Le Chiffre
organizes a high-stakes Texas hold 'em tournament
at the Casino Royale in Montenegro.
MI6 enters Bond in the tournament,
believing a defeat will force Le Chiffre
to seek asylum with the British government
in exchange for information on his clients.
Bond is paired with Vesper Lynd, a British
Treasury agent protecting the $10 million
buy-in. During their train ride, they assess
and make insightful guesses about each other. In
Montenegro, they meet their contact René Mathis.
Bond seems to gain the upper hand, deducing Le
Chiffre's “tell”. Obanno ambushes Le Chiffre but
allows him to continue playing to win back the
money. Obanno's bodyguard spots Bond and Vesper,
but Bond kills him and Obanno both.
After comforting a traumatized Vesper,
Bond loses his stake because Le Chiffre
has been tipped off about his own tell.
Vesper refuses to cover the $5 million rebuy, but
fellow player Felix Leiter, a CIA agent, agrees to
stake Bond enough money to continue in exchange
for taking Le Chiffre into American custody.
Le Chiffre's lover Valenka poisons Bond's martini
with digitalis. Retrieving an antidote and
defibrillator from his Aston Martin DBS V12,
Bond passes out but Vesper rescues him. Bond
returns to the game, which culminates in a $115
million hand that Bond wins with a straight flush.
Apparently tipped off by Mathis, Le Chiffre
kidnaps Vesper and uses her to trap Bond.
Le Chiffre brings the captives to an abandoned
ship and tortures Bond to reveal the account
number and password to the winnings, but Bond
refuses. Mr. White bursts in and kills Le Chiffre
as punishment for betraying the trust of his
organization by gambling with their money,
leaving Bond and Vesper alive.
Bond awakens in an MI6 hospital
and has Mathis arrested as a traitor. After
transferring the winnings, Bond spends time
recovering with Vesper at his side and the two
fall in love. He resigns from MI6 and they run
away to Venice. When M reveals the money was never
deposited, Bond realizes Vesper has betrayed him.
He follows her to a handoff of the money, where
gunmen take her captive as soon as they spot him.
Bond shoots the building's flotation devices,
causing the foundation to sink into the Grand
Canal. He kills the gunmen, but Vesper is
imprisoned in an elevator plunging into the rising
water. She drowns after deliberately locking
herself inside the elevator to prevent Bond from
rescuing her; he recovers her body but is too late
to revive her. Mr. White escapes with the money.
M informs Bond the organization behind Le
Chiffre threatened to kill Vesper's lover
unless she became a double agent. When Bond coldly
renounces Vesper as a traitor, M deduces that she
likely made a deal later with White, trading the
money for Bond's life. Bond returns to service.
Realizing Vesper left her phone to help him, he
checks the contacts and locates Mr. White at an
estate in Lake Como. Shooting him in the leg, 007
introduces himself: "The name's Bond, James Bond".